Spryker analytics (#2880)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/202410.0/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md

---

> title: Amazon QuickSight

Reviewer: I would suggest the following structure based on priority for the feature understanding:

1. Analyses and dashboards
2. User management and permissions
3. Data sources and datasets
4. Resetting analytics

Reviewer: We need to add a new section "Exporting data" according to the order above.

There, we need to describe the following use cases:

1. Exporting data from visuals
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/quicksight/latest/user/exporting-data.html

2. Exporting analyses or dashboards as PDFs
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/quicksight/latest/user/export-dashboard-to-pdf.html

description: Amazon QuickSight overview
template: concept-topic-template
last_updated: Oct 24, 2024
---

> Amazon QuickSight brings customizable and powerful business intelligence tools to the Back Office.

Reviewer: as it will be the first page for the user, let's please add some more details on this feature for a better context and introduction:

Amazon QuickSight is a business analytics tool integrated directly into the Back Office. This feature lets users visualize data, create customizable dashboards, and perform deep analytics on sales, product performance, customer behaviors, and marketplace KPIs. By leveraging analytics, you can unlock new monetization opportunities and make more informed business decisions.

Highlights:
- Instant data connection with default dashboards, integrated directly within the Spryker platform for immediate insights and data export
- Go beyond simple visualization, enabling deep data analysis with preconnected Spryker DB
- High customizable, offering multiple options to tailor reports & analytics workflows 
- Extendable with multiple data sources so that you can aggregate data analysis across various systems

> ## Data sources and data sets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data sources and datasets
```

This feature supports data from Spryker projects and third-party systems. When you set up Amazon QuickSight, the data from your project is available by default, and you can add other data sources if needed.

![QuickSight-datasets](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/qs-data-sets.png)

For more details on data sources, see [Supported data sources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/quicksight/latest/user/supported-data-sources.html).

### Extending project data for analytics

> By looking at datasets, you can see what data from your project is available for adding to analytics. By default, for each dataset, only the data that can be useful for analytics is available from a respective database table. For example, the Customer dataset doesn't include customer passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By looking at datasets, you can see what data from your project is available for analytics. By default, only the data that can be useful and secure for analytics is available from the respective database tables for each dataset. For example, the Customer dataset doesn't include customer passwords or names.
```

Author: My bad, I wanted to say that customer names are available. First and last names are in bold

Reviewer: ah ok, thank you for pointing this. I sent you the file in Slack which is more accurate.

You can extend the data available to datasets on the project level. For more details, see [Install Amazon QuickSight]().

### Refreshing data

To make datasets up to date, you need to refresh them by resyncing data from your project or third-party systems.

> You can refresh data manually or automatically by setting up a schedule per data set.

Author: What do you mean by `when you enable analytics in your project`? Can you set up automatic refreshing during the process of enabling analytics?

> You can refresh data manually or automatically by setting up a schedule per data set.

Reviewer: It is about to activate the automatic update once you start working with Analytics data. Like you start using feature and one of the first things should be the scheduler set up so that the data is up to date. Doesn't have to be the FIRST thing you do but obviously very important to do.

![refresh-dataset](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/refresh-dataset.png)

For instructions, see [Refresh analytics datasets](/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/202410.0/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/back-office-refresh-analytics-datasets.html).

## User management and permissions

When working with analytics, users can have the following roles:

> * Author: can view, create, and edit assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Author: can view, create, and edit assets (dashboards, analyses, datasets, data sources).
```

Author: According to QS's docs, there're the following assets:
* Analyses
* Dashboards
* Datasets
* Datasrouces
* Shared folders

Do customers have access to datasources and shared folders?

Reviewer: Yes, the author also has access to data sources, incl. Spryker DB. 
Let's skip "shared folders" for now here as we need to find out if they really work.

> * Reader: can view assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reader: can only view dashboards.
```

An analysis is a customizable visual representation of data. Using the provided tools, you can manipulate your data to extract and present the most important information.

Each analysis can contain multiple data visualizations, which can be rearranged and customized.

![QuickSight-analyses](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/qs-analysis.png)

A dashboard is a representation of data prepared in an analysis. It serves as a published version of data analysis, which can be shared with other users.

![QuickSight-dashboard](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/qs-dashboard.png)

Both analyses and dashboards are shareable, you can share a complete dashboard or collaborate on an analysis.

![QuickSight-sharing](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/qs-sharing.png)

You can share dashboards with authors and readers, and analyses – only with authors.

> ### Default dashboards

Reviewer: let's please add in each of the Sheet sections the show/hide list with the tables with visual and visual type according to this list: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kxFDgNLbHPuWWjm91cwB-MUQSGD44Bh_xqzmHWld69A/edit?gid=1846830203#gid=1846830203 

it will create transparency on OOTB data and avoid answering questions on "what do you track exactly?"

Author: what do you mean by sheet sections?

> For those new to Amazon QuickSight analytics, while you're learning how to create your own dashboards, you can start using the default dashboards right away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you're learning how to create your own dashboards, you can start using the default dashboards right away.
```

> The feature is shipped with the following dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The feature is shipped with the dashboard containing four different sheets.
```

Reviewer: in order to avoid inconsistency, let's not call single sheets "dashboards" as there is technically one dashboard.

> #### Sales dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Sales
```

* Track sales performance over time
* Gain insights into orders and return rate
* Monitor discounts, product categories, brands
* Monitor the usage of payment and shipping methods

#### Products dashboard

* Track performance of products
* Monitor availability and returns
* Analyze top-selling items, category distribution, and trends in shopping lists and customer carts

#### Customers dashboard

> Track the following customer metrics:

Reviewer: remove this to be the same format as in other sections

> * Order number and value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Order number and value per customer
```

* Registration trends

> * Locations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Locations with the most customers
```

> * Demographics

Reviewer: let's remove it please

#### Marketplace dashboard
* Track marketplace performance with insights into merchant status and commission
* Get an overview of merchant orders, products, and offers

> 

Reviewer: New section to be added here:
"Synchronizing users"
TBD

Author: Please provide more details on how the new user management system works, including the following details:
1. What users do I have after setting up QS?
2. What happens to the user that activates QS?
3. How do I add new users?
4. How do I manage user roles?

And any other details because I have 0 info on the new user management

Reviewer: Maybe here we can add if you need more users, please contact CSM as we did in the part of describing how to get Analytics in general.

## Resetting analytics

Sometimes you might want to start from scratch and get a fresh analytics account. Resetting analytics removes all assets and returns your account to the default state.

> ![reset-analytics](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/pbc/all/business-intelligence/amazon-quicksight-third-party-integration/amazon-quicksight.md/reset-analytics.png)

Reviewer: let's remove the image as we will state the message above in the text.
